Added Accessibility Testing basics how to article (#1204)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/accessibility/test-inspect-text-contrast.md

---
description: Check text color contrast in the default state by using the Inspect tool's information overlay on the page, which has an Accessibility section that includes Contrast information.
title: Check text-color contrast in the default state using the Inspect tool
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.date: 05/13/2021
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
keywords: microsoft edge, web development, f12 tools, devtools
---
# Check text-color contrast in the default state using the Inspect tool

<!-- Inspect tool: information overlay: Accessibility section: Contrast row -->

Check text color contrast in the default state by using the **Inspect** tool.  The **Inspect** tool's information overlay on the webpage has an **Accessibility** section that includes **Contrast** information.

> **To check text-color contrast in the default state by using the Inspect tool's information overlay:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check text-color contrast in the default state using the Inspect tool's information overlay, perform the following steps.
```

<!-- Inspect tool -->
For elements that have text, the **Inspect** tool's information overlay shows the following:
*  The contrast ratio of text versus background colors.
*  A green check mark icon for elements with enough contrast.
*  A yellow alert icon for elements that don't have enough contrast.

In some cases, contrast is affected by setting the browser to light theme or dark theme.

> As an example, in the demo page, the blue links of the sidebar navigation menu have enough contrast, but the green **Dogs** link in the **Donation status** section does not have enough contrast.  Inspect those elements using the **Inspect** tool, as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an example, on the demo page, the blue links of the sidebar navigation menu have enough contrast, but the green **Dogs** link in the **Donation status** section does not have enough contrast.  Review those elements using the **Inspect** tool, as follows:
```

    :::image type="complex" source="../media/a11y-testing-enough-contrast.msft.png" alt-text="The menu items have enough contrast, as shown in the Inspect tool" lightbox="../media/a11y-testing-enough-contrast.msft.png":::
        The menu items have enough contrast, as shown in the Inspect tool
    :::image-end:::

1.  In the rendered webpage, in the **Donation Status** section, hover over the **Dogs** link.  The **Inspect** tool's information overlay shows an orange exclamation point on the **Contrast** row, indicating that this element doesn't have enough contrast of text versus background colors.

    :::image type="complex" source="../media/a11y-testing-not-enough-contrast.msft.png" alt-text="An element that doesn't have enough contrast, as shown by the warning in the Inspect tool" lightbox="../media/a11y-testing-not-enough-contrast.msft.png":::
        An element that doesn't have enough contrast, as shown by the warning in the Inspect tool
    :::image-end:::

> ## Ways to inspect text-color contrast in DevTools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Different options to inspect text-color contrast in DevTools
```

> There are several DevTools features for inspecting text-color contrast:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following list describes the different DevTools features to use when inspecting text-color contrast.
```
